= vidibus-core_extensions

This gem is part of the open source SOA framework Vidibus: http://www.vidibus.org

It provides some extensions to the ruby core.


== Installation

Add the dependency to the Gemfile of your application:

  gem "vidibus-core_extensions"

Then call bundle install on your console.


= Usage

== Array

=== Array#flatten_once
  
Flattens first level of an array. Example:
  
  [1, [2, [3]]].flatten_once  # => [1, 2, [3]]


=== Array#merge

Merges given array with current one.

It will perform insertion of new items by three rules:

1. If the item's predecessor is present, insert item after it.
2. If the item's follower is present, insert item before it.
3. Insert item at end of list.

Examples:

  [].merge([1, 2])            # => [1, 2]
  ['a'].merge([1, 2])         # => ['a', 1, 2]
  [1, 'a'].merge([1, 2])      # => [1, 2, 'a']
  [1, 'a'].merge([3, 1, 2])   # => [3, 1, 2, 'a']


== Hash

=== Hash#to_uri

Returns URL-encoded string of uri params. Examples:

  { :some => :value, :another => "speciál" }.to_uri  # => "some=value&another=speci%C3%A1l"
  { :some => { :nested => :thing } }.to_uri          # => "some=[nested=thing]"


=== Hash#only

Returns a copy of self including only the given keys. Example:

  { :name => "Rodrigo", :age => 21 }.only(:name)  # => { :name => "Rodrigo" }


=== Hash#except

Returns a copy of self including all but the given keys. Example:

  { :name => "Rodrigo", :age = 21 }.except(:name)  # => { :age => 21 }


== String

=== String#latinize

Returns a string without exotic chars. Examples:
  
  "Hola señor, ¿cómo está?".latinize # => "Hola senor, como esta?"
  "Ähre, wem Ähre gebührt.".latinize # => "AEhre, wem AEhre gebuehrt."


=== String#permalink

Returns a string that may be used as permalink. Example:
  
  "Hola señor, ¿cómo está?".permalink # => "hola-senor-como-esta"


== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Andre Pankratz. See LICENSE for details.
